Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
I'M STILL HERE
UNDER MILITARY DICTATORSHIP
Go for it. Marcelo! Go.
Good header.
Good one. Eliana!
Go. go. go!
My ball!
Nice!
Whose mutt is that?
Get it off the court!
It's been around for a week.
Get him out!
Is he yours?
No.
Marcelo!
Hold him.
He's messing up the game.
- So cute!
- What a sweetie!
We could keep him.
Yeah. right.
Who's that cute guy...
Marcelo!
Check out our new puppy!
Mom won't let you keep
that fleabag.
- Where is she?
- Don't know.
Can I get a bit more?
Dalal will kill us if we show up
tanned at the ballet.
That's what face powder's for.
Let's go! C'mon. c'mon!
Careful on the street. Marcelo!
Let's go!
Excuse me!
Wipe your feet!
I just swept the house.
Can I hold him?
ZEZÉ: What on earth is this now?
Our new puppy.
It's filthy!
Does your mom know about this?
Is Dad here?
ZEZÉ: In the office.
with Mr. Boca.
Don't bother him.
It's urgent.
I'll be blamed!
So cute!
It was crazy
to take on a project this size.
If it were easy.
we wouldn't take it.
- I would.
- I know you would!
Of course I would.
- Dad?
- Come in!
No dog in the house. No way!
Can we keep him?
Please?
- What did Mom say?
- She said to ask you.
What have I got to do with this?
- You take him.
- Me? No way.
I've got a tunnel to build.
Dalal will kick me out!
I think
this little rascal here...
looks like a...
Pimpão!
Let me see.
I know how to do it.
PIMPÃO: Hold on. guys.
What's that?
Kill the joint. Reyna.
- Line up. line up.
- Single file.
- I said single file.
- Pull over.
To the left.
Two suspects on a motorcycle.
Check the list of reported cars.
Attention all units.
Suspect vehicle.
Up against the wall!
Against the wall! Show your ID.
I gave you my ID!
What else do you want?
Shut up!
Next to the yellow car.
There. next to the yellow!
You. pull over here! Right here.
Cut the engine.
Put that camera down. damn it.
Move it!
Out of the car.
- Hands on the wall.
- Hands on the hood.
- To the wall. hippie.
- Face the wall.
Face the wall.
Let go!
Shut your trap. kid.
Turn forward.
WANTED
TERRORISTS AND MURDERERS
Your IDs.
- Don't push him!
- IDs!
It's in the car. Can I get it?
Move!
Hair out of your face.
Hair out of your face!
Babiu. red or silver?
Red looks better.
What time did
Veroca's movie end?
Relax.
She'll be home soon.
Pimpão must have taken
the others home first.
Kidnapping in Rio de Janeiro.
Eliana. turn it up.
Giovanni Bucher
had his car intercepted en route
to the embassy
just before 9 a.m. today.
The kidnappers captured
the Swiss ambassador
after injuring his bodyguard.
who was shot in the head
and is in serious condition.
In a quick
and violent operation.
eight men and one woman
used a Willys Aero
to block the ambassador's car
in Laranjeiras.
Didn't they let that guy go?
No. that was
the German ambassador.
This guy's Swiss.
said that.
after hearing shots.
they saw a two-door Volkswagen
at high speed
heading towards Flamengo.
Pamphlets were left at the scene
signed by the kidnappers.
self-proclaimed
National Liberation Alliance.
He's so cute.
But who's going to take care
of him? Help me out!
What happened?
I'm still shaking.
It was fucked up.
What happened?
Watch your language. Veroca!
Where were you?
Taking Helena home.
there was a military roadblock.
They were really aggressive.
frisking everyone.
It was awful.
They kidnapped
another ambassador.
Another one?
It was on TV just now.
Luckily. Pimpão
had his dad's BBA card.
What does BBA mean?
It's good to have a lawyer
in the family.
Brazilian Bar Association.
Something to eat?
Not hungry. Zezé. thanks.
- She's not eating at all.
- You're screwed.
Go talk to your dad.
He was worried.
Here.
This ambassador thing is crazy.
Veroca!
Dad named him Pimpão.
Don't tell him.
Is he gone? He said
I could ride in the Dodge.
- Some other day...
- Hey. kid!
No riding in that playboy's car.
Funny.
I thought a playboy
was someone who drank whiskey
and smoked cigars all day...
No. sweetie. I'm the guy
who pays for your matinées.
What did you "not see"?
Blow-Up. The sound was shitty.
Your mom gets worried sick...
What.
are you going to lock me up?
Goddamn tell her!
Is it my fault
the military harasses people?
How many prisoners
did they ask for now?
- I don't know.
- Everyone to bed. Now.
I wanna finish watching
the news.
No. Bedtime.
Nice try. Marcelo.
The dog goes in the garage.
I'll call Dalva to see
if Helena got in all right.
Sounds like it wasn't pretty.
Dalva's still trying to get us
to move to London with them.
But then she offered
to take Veroca.
Might be good.
Really?
Next year she'll start college.
You know how that goes.
Do I?
The way she is. she'll get
involved in student politics.
I think we should wait a bit.
Let them settle down first.
Then we'll see. No rush.
Why are Gaspa and Dalva
leaving all of a sudden. then?
Gaspa's paranoid.
thinks he's being watched.
Let's send her with them.
At least
until this phase is over.
It'll pass soon.
Remember the macrobiotic phase?
Lasted two weeks.
Yeah. but no one gets arrested
for being macrobiotic.
You're right.
I'll talk to Gaspa.
Yeah?
It'll be fine.
Hello?
- Rubens. can you talk?
- Yes.
It's about the delivery.
Just a minute.
Work. I'll take it downstairs.
Hang up for me.
Mm-hmm.
Go ahead.
Delfim Moreira. 80.
- The corner house?
- Exactly.
Will you be there all day?
No.
You can leave it at the office.
Near Cinelândia?
Downtown.
You have the address. right?
I do.
Quite a few envelopes this time.
- Talk tomorrow.
- Okay.
All right.
Bye.
What's a little squirrel
doing up now?
- I smelled your cigar.
- Better nose than the dog.
What's this for?
This is for doing math.
or measuring a liar's nose.
And who were you talking to?
Dad's on a secret mission.
Know what it is?
We concluded that
you can't beat me at foosball.
Your chance is zero.
- Can I prove you wrong?
- You want to prove it now?
Well...
Will you cry
and wake up the house?
Please?
- After you. big-mouth.
- Go!
- Cry quietly.
- Crybabies first.
Don't you wake up your sisters.
- One to one.
- No way. man!
Watch out! One to one!
Before the eyes of a nation!
What the fuck. guys!
Trying to sleep!
- What a stunning comeback!
- That's a save!
Wash him good.
Put your back into it. guys.
Now he's going to smell nice.
Scrub. scrub.
Your bed must be so gross
after the dog slept in it.
Ah!
So. you slept with...
You'll meet an English boy.
The next John Lennon!
You'll never come back.
Guys. I am coming back!
I want to major in sociology.
But you don't have
to decide now.
Decide when you come back.
I've decided. Mom.
Rum raisin for my Mediterranean.
What did you call Mom?
Mediterranean. son.
A mix of Italian. Spanish.
Greek and Turkish.
The most beautiful woman
there is.
That's me.
Veroca...
find me an English boyfriend.
- Nalu. you can't date yet.
- Of course I can.
Will you miss me?
Of course I'll miss you.
my love!
- What about me?
- No!
Stop it.
Poor thing!
Veroca.
I will. I will.
This one's for you.
Thank you. Dalva!
Veroca promised
not to give you any trouble.
She'll be no trouble at all.
I can always go in her place.
I'd love it
if you all went with us.
When the house
gets off the ground. we'll go.
Yeah. right. Eunice!
Once you move into that house.
you'll never leave Rio.
Is this for Babiu?
That one's for her.
And this one...
I set aside for you.
Wow!
It's gotten
too dangerous here. Rubens.
We are sitting ducks.
You should really come with us.
I'm sending Veroca first
to see if it's not a scam.
Who knows.
Offering shelter
for a whole family in London?
- You bought Buckingham Palace?
- You're my family. too.
You'll be back soon.
You'll reopen the bookstore.
the publishing house...
It won't be long.
You'll see.
Son of a bitch.
- Love you. man.
- Love you.
- Are you taking them all?
- No.
Just this one.
Here.
Seriously?
Just don't let
Eliana touch them.
Vera.
Wow!
Don't spend it all on records.
Buy some boots. You'll need
a good pair in the cold.
Thank you.
Do you still have
that brown coat?
- Which one?
- The fur-lined one.
Ah.
This one.
But it's so old.
Looks brand new.
A gift from your dad.
Honeymoon in Bariloche.
Can I borrow it?
You'd better behave there.
Dalva has enough on her mind.
don't cause trouble.
I can take care of myself. Mom.
Take care of my coat. then.
- I'll want it back.
- I promise.
Don't run off.
I'm making soufflé for you.
Oui. oui. madame.
Nalu!
Goal!
One-nil!
Did you see that?
Better than his dad.
Which isn't hard!
Anyone interested in this house?
You. right?
I'm looking for a place
like this. around here.
Rubens hasn't even started
the new house.
But I can introduce you
to a great realtor.
Please. Our space can't handle
the new students.
I don't know how Dalal
manages to run a school alone.
I don't have five kids. right?
- Six. if you count...
- Rubens!
What a delicious smell.
How do you keep it
from sticking to the pan?
I told you!
You run a knife around the edge.
put it in a very hot oven
and don't open it.
- No way.
- That's it!
Look how sweet.
the girls dancing.
I'm glad
they don't understand French.
I was just showing Cris.
Seen your sister?
- Not in the bedroom?
- No.
- Don't touch it!
- It's nearly out!
Let it fall out on its own.
Anybody upstairs?
No.
Brasília is a ticking time bomb.
The military will hit hard.
Seventy prisoners
for one ambassador.
It's playing with fire.
- How are things at the paper?
- Really bad.
They never asked
for the release of so many.
If the military say no.
will they kill him?
No. honey.
Right now.
the ambassador's probably...
How's he doing. Baby?
Felix. show her.
The ambassador
has a big cigar in his mouth.
He's practically in Geneva!
Soufflé's in the oven.
Who's hungry?
A Swiss cheese soufflé.
Wet bikini on the couch. Eliana?
Go change.
- It's so hot.
- No.
I told her.
- Veroca's disappeared.
- Let her be.
- I almost broke my arm.
- How?
I fell on top of my arm...
Your stories
are long and confusing.
Tell us this new long.
confusing story!
I need prayers!
Babiu is calmer. But this one...
I feel like...
- Is this your first?
- You got seconds!
I'm having thirds!
Every time I have
to pretend I like soufflé.
Hey. Dad. isn't this my party?
I choose the songs!
What's Miss Peace
and Love whining about?
You'll get tired
of gringo music.
Can I take the lady?
Why ask him?
Now I'm asking the lady.
Fat chance.
Can you believe
she's going away?
Soon it's just the two of us.
My tooth fell out!
- Babiu! Babiu!
- Show him.
Babiu! Babiu!
What if someone finds it?
Not a chance. sweetheart.
Look at the size of the beach.
- What if we don't find it?
- We will.
I counted the steps
from home to here.
Let's take a photo!
Babiu!
Come. let's take a photo.
Come. Rubens!
Round up!
Let's do it!
Eunice.
I'll take it!
You have to be in the photo.
Attention.
Ready. everyone?
Nobody serious. okay?
Go.
Attention.
"Ditch the Dictators!"
1. 2. 3 and...
Veroca!
The Swiss
ambassador. Giovanni Bucher.
was released today in exchange
for 70 political prisoners...
who were flown to Chile.
I'll take it. Zezé.
Hello?
Is Mr. Paiva there?
He's not at home.
Who's this?
Hello?
Rubens.
this came for you.
Okay. Geraldo. Thanks.
TO RUBENS PAIVA
FROM VERA LENNON
"Guys. this is
no ordinary letter.
It's a sensory experience.
like a Mutantes concert.
"This is our house.
"It's quite funny.
just like in Blow-Up.
The houses are all alike."
I'd get lost there!
Looks boring to me.
"The doors are different.
"Christmas without the beach
is weird.
"But the snow is cool. too.
"We even made our first snowman.
"Remind you of someone?"
A new and improved Dad.
"And
how about this street?"
How exciting!
"Nalu.
my feet touched the same ground
as John Lennon!"
No freaking way!
"The Beatles
recorded here!"
Watch out for the bus!
My English boyfriend!
You don't even speak English!
"Look at this record store.
I could live in it. I swear.
We stayed there
till closing time.
I only bought one single.
okay. Mom?
I doubt it.
And it's not even for me.
It's for Pimpão."
Consolation prize!
"He'll dig it.
That's how my first letter ends.
I hope you're all well.
Kisses. Miss you all.
Vera Lennon."
Put it on again.
Again? Hold on.
I have to rewind.
It's going back.
Wait... Done.
- Can I read it this time?
- Sure.
- Can we?
- Let me get the lights.
Can I start?
"This is our house.
It's quite funny.
the houses are all alike.
Just like in Blow-Up.
"The doors are different..."
- Expecting someone?
- Just a sec.
Out of the way!
"Christmas without
the beach is weird.
But the snow is cool. too.
We even made our first snowman.
Remind you of someone?
And how about this street?"
I have to organize the photos.
or I'll get hopelessly mixed up.
Honey. can't we put air
conditioning in the kids' room?
No need.
The house will be breezy.
There's a cobogó wall.
a big veranda...
Can you pick it up?
It's my turn.
- Hello?
- Mr. Paiva?
I have a delivery to make.
Okay.
- Delfim Moreira?
- Corner of Almirante Guimarães.
We'll be here all afternoon.
- I'll be right there.
- Mm-hmm.
Thank you.
Is there a good movie
at the Pax?
We have dinner at Dalal's.
Baby didn't say?
We'll go afterwards.
- Ooh.
Ready for my move?
- I was born ready.
- Aw.
Aw.
- Where are you going?
- To check on lunch.
Mr. Paiva.
there are some men here...
What's going on?
Congressman Rubens Paiva?
This is a mistake.
Been out of congress for years.
No mistake.
You're coming with us.
- Where?
- To give a deposition.
It's routine.
A deposition about what. Rubens?
It's okay.
- I just need to change.
- Of course.
Escort Mr. Paiva.
Anyone else at home?
No. Just my children.
They're upstairs.
There's no need for weapons.
- Hi. Mom.
- Hi. dear.
Where's Dad?
He's upstairs.
- Okay.
- I'll just get a glass of water.
I'll get it.
Good morning.
- Dad!
- Hey!
- Dad.
- That's me.
Can I borrow this?
Do I have a choice. Nalu?
Go ahead.
And where's my kiss?
Right.
Where are you going
all dressed up like that. huh?
I'm going to the office.
But it's a holiday.
I'm just helping
these gentlemen.
I'll be back soon. sweetie.
Okay.
Hmm.
I changed my mind.
Sleep at Cris's house. Tomorrow
you go to ballet together.
Thank you!
Cristina. tell Sebastião
to drop by.
I'll tell him.
Can I go with him?
Your husband will be home soon.
I'll be back for the soufflé.
Where's the deposition?
I don't have that information.
What about you?
We'll keep you company.
- Hi.
- Hi. honey.
- Did you sleep well?
- Who are these guys?
They're from pest control.
Are you hungry?
Sit here.
I'll fetch you breakfast.
Chocolate milk?
Is Dad at the beach?
He went out for a bit.
He'll be back soon.
Good Lord. What's going on?
Where's the extension?
One in the office
and another upstairs.
If it's for your husband.
say he's traveling.
Hello?
Hi. Dalal.
Yeah. but today won't work.
Rubens had to travel
last minute.
Nothing serious.
It's a family matter.
he'll be back tomorrow.
Okay. I will.
Give Baby my best.
We haven't been introduced yet.
I'm Eunice.
Schneider.
Are you staying for lunch?
Don't worry about it.
Please. I insist.
A car with an unlocked door
is an invitation to crime.
Psst. Babiu.
ZEZÉ: Eat.
What exactly do you do.
Mr. Schneider?
I'm a parapsychologist.
A parapsychologist?
Mom. why is the house closed up?
Eliana. go take a bath.
After the game.
I came to get the ball.
Not now. honey.
What's this?
No one leaves
till your dad comes back.
- Where's Dad?
- Let's go to your room.
- They're waiting for me!
- You can play later.
But I've got the ball!
No!
Who are these guys?
Why can't I leave?
They took your dad.
- Where to?
- I don't know. honey.
They said he had
to answer some questions.
Are they policemen?
I think they're from the army.
Calm down. honey.
Come here.
It'll be okay.
Just don't tell the little ones.
Babiu. can you help me
in the kitchen?
Go. go. go.
Enough!
Just a sec.
No. your sister's in bed. Now.
We'll finish tomorrow.
These gentlemen
won't be here tomorrow.
You win.
Anything else I can do for you?
There's food in the fridge.
You can help yourselves.
We'll manage. Thank you.
Can you check
if Rubens is on his way back?
It's late. I'm worried.
I can't do that.
Unfortunately.
Let's go to bed.
- They're armed.
- I know. honey.
Can I sleep with you?
Stay with the little ones.
Please.
Shift change.
You can go back to sleep.
I'm not tired.
Eliana.
Honey.
Is Dad back?
No. honey.
They want to question us. too.
- Me too?
- Yes. dear.
Put this on.
But don't worry.
we'll be back soon.
Take care of the kids for me.
Put this on. please.
Where's my daughter?
Eliana's outside.
Sorry about the hood.
Cigarette?
Where's my husband?
CONFIDENTIAL DOSSIER
MARIA EUNICE FACCIOLLA PAIVA
How long have you been married?
I want to see him.
Here it says 18 years.
Was he already associating
with communists?
My husband was
in the Labor Party.
and I'd like to speak
to my lawyer.
No need.
These are routine questions.
I'll answer them
after I see my daughter
and my husband.
He's upstairs.
He told us everything.
You just need to confirm.
Confirm what?
That he left the country in '64
for conspiring
against the revolution.
Rubens was a congressman.
He was ousted.
Had to go into exile.
Since he came back. he hasn't
been involved in politics.
Why does he still associate
with terrorists?
He's got nothing to do
with terrorists.
You're gonna kill me!
We've been watching the comings
and goings at your house.
We like having friends over.
Are any of those friends
in here?
No.
Eunice.
I'm trying to ensure
that you can keep taking care
of your home.
taking your kids to school.
and playing your backgammon.
That's my job.
How's Vera doing in London?
Did you do something to her?
She did something wrong?
- No!
- No need to worry then.
Shall we try again?
Who's this here?
Rubens.
See? It's not hard.
Who else do you recognize?
Look carefully.
That's Martha.
My daughters' teacher.
I don't know
what she's doing here.
She was intercepted
at the airport.
Her son provides logistics
for the subversives in Chile.
Can't be the same person.
She brought letters to Rubens.
I want to know how he delivers
the letters to the terrorists.
I just said. Rubens has no
connection with any terrorists.
Eunice. you need to start
rethinking your attitude.
Will I see my daughter now?
- What on earth?
- Protocol.
You said if I answered.
I'd see my family.
We're not done yet.
Is my daughter here?
- Is my daughter here?
- Mom?
- Eliana.
- What's happening?
Sit down!
Just a few questions.
then we'll go home.
Let's go. lady.
Let me...
My daughter!
She's just a child!
Just a child.
Don't let them do
anything to her.
Quiet.
You'll just rile 'em up.
Eliana.
Your turn.
Name?
How long have I been here?
Say your name.
Eunice Paiva.
Full name.
Maria Lucrécia
Eunice Facciolla Paiva.
I want to talk to my husband.
Look again.
I told you what I know.
I just want
to change my clothes...
Again.
My daughter.
Where is she?
Don't have that information.
Recognize anyone else?
Eliana.
- Shut up!
- Eliana!
- Quiet!
Your daughter's not here.
She only stayed one night.
- How long have I been here?
- Five days.
And my husband?
His name is Rubens.
Did you see him?
♪ Samba ♪
♪ Black. strong and bold ♪
♪ Hounded wherever you went ♪
♪ On the corner
In the bar. at worship ♪
Shut up. damn it!
I don't know anything!
Murderers!
Stop!
Full name.
Maria Lucrécia
Eunice Facciolla Paiva.
Where am I going?
I want you to know
that I don't approve.
Sweetie.
Come here.
Where were you?
Sweetie...
Shush.
Want something to eat?
Mom...
just needs some sleep.
Okay?
In the morning.
we'll have breakfast.
What's going on?
Eliana?
What?
Mom's back.
What about Dad?
No.
- Is she in their room?
- Mm-mmm.
She said nobody should go in.
Can I sleep with you?
Sure.
I wanted to wait for you.
But they didn't let me.
I'm sorry.
Did they do anything to you?
They asked lots of questions.
But I said
I didn't know anything.
Did you see your father there?
The papers say he escaped.
Escaped?
But Lino said it's a lie.
Lino was here?
No. At Baby's house.
I go there every day
after school.
They are all there.
trying to find you.
Mom. no.
We don't use the phone.
Let's go. I'll go with you.
No. You go to school.
I need to know...
Eliana. you're going to school.
I'm helping them.
Eliana.
your mom takes care of this now.
- Mom!
- Mommy!
My babies!
Where's Daddy?
This rescue story is fabricated.
But they can't deny
the arrest now.
They denied Rubens' arrest?
Said it had nothing to do
with the army.
The same happened to
the Pasquim guys. they're fine.
Exactly. Vanished
for two months. then released.
The international
community is watching closely.
What about a photo of the family
without the father?
- Good idea.
- Of course it is.
- Put it on the cover!
- We can't do that.
Why not?
The paper publishes
what the military says.
I'm thinking New York Times.
le Monde.
- How's your French?
- Don't know what to say.
Talk about your arrest.
Eliana's too.
- Didn't she want to come?
- I sent her to school.
- Is she well?
- Yes. She's fine.
A little scared. That's normal.
Relax.
He's a former congressman.
He's safe.
It'd make too much of a splash.
We keep up pressure.
keep watching.
We have to do more than that.
We need concrete proof
of his arrest.
Or there's not much more
we can do.
- His car.
- What about it?
It's parked in the army lot.
I saw it yesterday.
ZEZÉ: Eunice. Lino's here.
Should I make coffee?
No. I'm on my way out.
I'll pick up
the kids from school.
Just take care of lunch. please.
- What would you like?
- Whatever there is.
♪ Toss in some tear gas ♪
♪ To fix the herd for good
So they won't whine no more ♪
♪ Batons on heads
And gas to burn it down ♪
♪ Smash those bandits' bones
To dust ♪
This is a change of clothes
and medicine.
My husband is diabetic.
he needs this.
There's no Rubens here.
Can you tell us
where he's been transferred?
You have to make a request
to the Federal Police.
All right. Thank you.
Can we have the receipt. please?
Thank you.
Where do you make that request?
No use. They'll just deny it.
We'll go through the courts.
But at least now. with this.
I can file the habeas corpus.
I'd like to read it.
Can I keep it?
It's worse than Greek.
Are you sure?
I am.
I'll pick up the kids
from school.
then I'll stop by the office
to return it.
No need. I have a copy.
If there's any news.
I'll let you know.
Just one thing. I didn't know
Rubens was diabetic.
He's not.
I found out who the letters were
for when I met your husband.
So you saw Rubens there?
We were put in the same car.
And taken where?
I don't know.
- They covered our heads with...
- Hoods.
They did the same to me.
What's so hard
about putting them back?
You've got to tell the police.
The police arrested us.
I know. But now they're saying
they didn't.
I'm sorry.
I can't get involved in this.
You're the only person
who saw him in there.
You have to help me.
If I can't prove
he was arrested...
Please. you've got to leave.
My husband's in danger. Martha.
We're all in danger.
- I can walk there!
- That's enough. Nalu!
Why's Daddy's car back.
but not him?
He's still on a trip.
But this is his bag!
Leave it there.
I've missed rehearsals.
Cris said I can go with her!
From now on. you go
straight home from school.
And nobody goes out
on their own.
What about Eliana's volleyball?
I quit.
Why?
I don't feel like practicing.
The search
for the Swiss ambassador's
kidnappers...
It's about the ambassador!
Not for children's ears. honey.
Zezé. come in.
Where's the key to this gate?
Does it even have a key?
Let me see if it's in here...
Pimpão. Pimpão!
Come on.
Come. you little rascal.
You little rascal!
No! Bad boy! Oh!
What about that car
with those men in it?
It's been there for days.
But do they do anything?
They just sit there.
Staring over here all day.
Your apron's frayed.
I said you should buy a new one.
I used the reserve money
to buy groceries...
There wasn't enough
for a new one.
Of course.
I'll stop by the bank
and I'll replace it. okay?
Eunice...
Could you see about my pay. too?
You've got a lot on your mind.
but Mr. Paiva only paid me
till December.
I'm sorry. Zezé.
I'll sort it out.
Thank you.
- Thank you.
- Please have a seat.
Rubens can call
to authorize the withdrawal.
There's no phone where he is.
He had to stay a few more days
to oversee the construction.
Is there really no way
you can help me. Ritor?
Without his signature.
I can't do it.
And Miriam? How's she doing?
She's fine.
We should go out
one of these days.
We should.
Well. I brought some...
dollars and pounds
I had at home.
Can you exchange them for me?
Of course.
I'll get someone to help you.
- Thank you.
- Excuse me.
Mom?
Hi.
Do you know where Mom is?
No.
Can I have a drag?
- Come on!
- No.
You show-off!
Gilda called Varig again.
She'll get Vera
on a standby list for next week.
By the way.
here's Veroca's letter.
I'll read it later.
I think it'd be better
if she stayed a while longer.
Do you know
how much the ticket is?
I'll work it out with Rubens
when he's back.
I hope he'll be back soon.
to deal with this mess!
Ah.
Son of a bitch!
Want to come over?
Everyone's there.
See friends again.
Why was Rubens arrested?
I don't know.
The military are shooting blind.
going after anyone.
Don't do that.
I was there. in that place.
I saw it.
I have the right to know
what Rubens was up to.
Don't you think?
I do.
Eunice.
We can't just do nothing.
Especially us.
We know everyone.
and we have the means to help.
So. me. Rubens. Gaspa. Raul...
One talks to the foreign press.
another provides shelter
for people.
another delivers letters
to families with no news.
We do what we can.
But we're not involved
in the armed struggle.
Much less Rubens.
So you decided
not to say a word to me.
to Dalal. to Dalva...
to protect us.
Mm-hmm. Of course.
And you think
Rubens will be released?
I do.
He'll be back soon.
Come have dinner with us.
Dalal will love to see you.
Sorry. I'm not up to it.
Too many kids to raise.
Thank you.
"These photos are on the subway.
One out front.
one inside the train.
We were going to a party
at the Arraes' house."
Pass it on.
"You won't believe
who was there!"
- Who?
- Tell us!
- Guess.
Caetano!
- Gil.
- Gilberto Gil.
"He was wearing
polka-dot velvet pants.
a Bob Marley song
started playing.
and Gil asked me to dance."
- No way.
- Liar.
"It was amazing!
I miss the beach.
the soufflé. and you all.
I miss everything.
Vera."
Is that it?
Can I see it?
Everyone stay here.
Marcelo.
Pimpão!
What are you looking at?
What do you want?
Where's my husband?
Go away!
Get out of here! Go away!
Get out!
Zezé?
Get me a blanket. please.
"The Brazilian exiles
were asking about Dad.
Mom and Eliana.
I didn't know what to say.
I got this awful feeling.
Why don't you tell me anything?
I found out about your arrests
from the papers.
What's going on?
I want to come home."
You didn't read the whole thing.
Give me that letter. honey.
No. You skipped the part where
Vera talks about Dad and me.
- They all talk about us.
- Give it to me.
Vera doesn't know anything!
- Give it to me!
- You're lying to us!
Go to your room.
SUPREME MILITARY COURT
HABEAS CORPUS
EUNICE PAIVA IS RELEASED
LAWYER REQUESTS PRIVATE CELL
FOR RUBENS PAIVA
HIS WHEREABOUTS ARE UNKNOWN
I still can't describe
the excruciating hours
I spent in prison.
but I can assure you
that your husband was there.
Though I couldn't see him.
I heard him say:
"Rubens Beyrodt Paiva."
Before I was transferred.
I heard his voice one last time.
asking for water.
I hope the family
will be reunited soon.
Give my best to my old students
Vera. Eliana and Nalu.
Lino?
It's me.
Sorry to call this late.
What's up? Did something happen?
We have proof
that Rubens was arrested.
There's still time for a swim.
Anyone?
- It's kind of late.
- I'm hungry.
Zezé.
No need to cook.
We're going for ice cream.
Wow!
Okay. Marcelo?
I want French fries.
A strawberry sundae.
Sit here.
Mom!
Died in combat.
The president said.
That's all.
Can you publish that?
No. not yet.
They won't admit it officially.
We have to talk to Lino.
He'll know what to do.
There's nothing we can do now.
What do you mean?
We have to force them
to admit it publicly.
A subpoena. a court order.
We believe
we have to keep asking
for his release.
as if we didn't know
what happened to him.
Why?
So my house
can keep being watched.
a car parked at the door?
My phone tapped? My family...
You're not alone in this.
What about the body?
All I know is what I told you.
But what do you think happened?
Say it.
I've heard different things.
Buried in the forest. dropped
into the sea from a helicopter.
Mass graves.
It's all rumors. There's no way
to know. 'cause...
Nobody will talk.
They're too afraid.
Do you mind
if I don't walk you out?
I'm sorry.
I wish I'd brought better news.
I know.
- Bye. everyone.
- Bye.
What were you talking about?
I brought something to your mom.
Did you find out
where my dad is?
No. Not yet.
Take care. okay?
The news is boring!
Then go play
with your stupid doll!
Marcelo.
You pest!
Mom.
What is it. honey?
Marcelo broke my doll.
Sit down.
Were you crying?
No.
There.
- Ready for ice cream?
- Sure.
Tell the others to get dressed.
- What about you?
- T.
G.
Mm-hmm.
- S?
- No.
Go. Babiu.
- R.
- R?
Mm-hmm.
Are you sure?
If we wait
to get the deed in order.
we'll get a much better price.
I've got too much to do.
I prefer it this way.
I can loan you money.
No problem.
This property is a find.
You can still
build the house there.
Thanks for managing to sell it
without the proper papers.
I'm sorry.
I wish I could have done more.
It wasn't your fault.
If you need anything.
anything at all...
for you and the kids.
will you let me know?
Of course.
Deposit?
Withdrawal.
Thank you.
- Hi.
Can I come in?
Sure.
Miss.
Aw!
I missed you so much!
You guys got so big!
Honey...
- I missed you.
- Me too.
- Did you know Pimpão died?
- Marcelo!
The dog.
Oh. poor thing!
Can I have a pin?
Take as many as you want.
Where are Nalu and Eliana?
At home. with the journalists
from Manchete.
What's that tabloid
doing at our house?
Taking a family photo
for the next edition.
Mom.
Go ahead. sweetie.
I left your coat in London.
Helena begged me for it.
I left it there.
It's okay.
Really?
Really.
She'll need a coat more than me.
over in London.
Are you okay. Mom?
I am. dear.
I'm okay.
- Have you heard any news?
- Vera.
In London.
it's in all the papers.
Not here?
Honey.
A little closer.
Get closer in. please.
- Is everyone in?
- Shall we?
Move in a little more. please.
Closer. That's it.
- Good?
- Yes. Let's go.
Three. two. one.
No need to smile.
Why not?
The editor asked for it.
For what?
He asked for a photo
that's more...
You know. less happy.
He wants it sad.
It doesn't have to be sad.
Just... No smiles.
He wants us sad.
We'll smile.
Smile!
Let's try a bit more serious.
Look over here. please.
Smile.
Three. two. one.
One more.
I really don't
understand. how in a country
with an allegedly functioning
justice system...
someone can come
into your house.
take your husband away...
a family man. an engineer...
throw him in jail.
and then say...
"He's gone."
The inquiry
was recently archived. right?
My lawyer has filed
a request to reopen it.
This is unacceptable behavior
by the state.
which is protected
by a system of false news
designed to cover up
the unlawful acts
committed by its own agents.
Is Zezé off today?
She doesn't work here anymore.
Why?
We can't afford
to pay her anymore.
She's at Dalal's school now.
Let me help you. then.
No need.
Tomorrow. you join the rotation.
I can do the dishes for you.
If you insist.
How are you doing?
I know they took you and Mom.
What's going on?
Nobody says anything!
We don't talk about it here.
I wish I could've made
a soufflé for you.
That's okay.
There wasn't time.
Shall we have lunch?
What do we do now that Veroca's
back. and I'm in her room?
I don't care.
Eliana could sleep
with Marcelo and Babiu...
- No way.
- You're already there!
My stuff is in the other room!
- My things won't fit.
- They will!
Hey!
There's no point in arguing.
Nobody's going to have
their own room.
Why?
Because we're moving
- to São Paulo.
- What?
- Are you serious?
- I am.
Grandma and Grandpa are there.
The cousins.
And sometimes. I'll have to
leave you with them a bit.
because I'm going
back to college.
You what?
- I'm not going!
- Eliana.
What about the new house?
It'll have to wait
a little. sweetie.
What about Dad?
This will be a long process.
It's hard to understand.
but we have to be patient.
What if he comes back
and we're not here?
This house
is already rented out.
It's going to become
a restaurant.
I want each of you
to pack your own suitcase.
and on Friday. a truck
is going to pull up out front.
We're going back to São Paulo.
Pass the salt.
GOVERNMENT DENIES PAIVA'S ARREST
Goodbye. ace.
Bye.
Bye. Luquinhas!
- Keep this for me?
- You'll be back. right?
Yep.
How did you find it?
Only Dad knew.
I know a lot of things. too.
Let's go?
- Nalu. have you seen Eliana?
- No.
Get in the car.
Eliana?
Eliana.
Honey?
25 YEARS LATER
You got in early.
Hi. honey.
I rescheduled my flight.
Good.
I'm gonna dine out with Daniel.
Wanna come?
I can't. Babiu.
I'll just heat something up.
- Mmm.
- Thanks.
Was that just now?
Mm-hmm.
I can't handle you
in those little airplanes.
By land. it's impossible.
It takes three days and the area
is swarming with land grabbers.
I thought you kicked them out
last time.
Yeah. me too.
Well...
When do you leave tomorrow?
Manuela will pick me up at 6:40.
I haven't even started preparing
my talk.
I'll have breakfast with you.
Okay.
The legal tools we have
to try to prevent
the illegal occupation
of these areas.
and the entire region affected
by the Trans-Amazonian highway.
First. file for the annulment
of fraudulent contracts
by land grabbers.
which Manuela and I did
for the Pataxó.
And enforce
the 1988 Constitution.
since it requires the government
to guarantee Indigenous peoples'
rights to their land.
Urgent phone call for you.
Hello?
Couldn't you comb your hair.
Marcelo?
I already put on a tie. Mom.
Do you have your ID on you?
Yes.
Right here in my pocket.
Okay.
Hello. Marlon.
- Hello.
- Excuse me!
These are
my children. Marcelo...
How's it going?
Beatriz.
- Is your little one better?
- Yes. back to school.
- Give Ivone my best.
- Sure.
Mrs. Paiva?
Congratulations.
Let's go. Marcelo.
- Is it really here?
- Yes.
Can you fetch
Mrs. Paiva's case file?
Sorry to bother. your mom said
you'd be coming in...
- Do you mind?
- Of course not.
- It's Carla. right?
- Carla with a C.
Did you like it?
I cried a lot.
Really?
It was supposed to be funny.
The story of your accident.
I was touched.
Were there too many
swear words in the book?
- No.
- No?
- See?
She picks on my language.
DEATH CERTIFICATE
The press is here.
Can I let them up?
Sure.
It's odd. you know.
to feel relief
with a death certificate.
How did you deal
with the void
left by your husband?
Forced disappearances were
one of the cruelest acts
of the regime.
because you kill one person
but condemn all the others to
eternal psychological torture.
After the return of democracy.
doesn't the government have
more urgent issues
than fixing the past?
No.
I think it's necessary
to compensate the families
and do the most important thing.
clarify and judge
all crimes committed
during the dictatorship.
If that doesn't happen.
they will continue
to be committed with impunity.
Photo!
Mom. not the fake scotch. eh?
Is that the real one?
After the third shot.
who can tell?
Now that it's finally over. retirement?
- What retirement?
- Take a break.
Come visit me and Daniel
in Bern. take a little rest...
To rest.
I have to be at the beach.
Then go for it.
Mom. you did it.
It's the good one!
- Yep.
- I told you.
- Not opening that now.
- I just did.
I have to organize this.
The paper asked
for a photo of Dad.
I'll call Vera. The kids must be
back from school.
Send my love.
Send my best to George.
Look at Pimpão and Zezé!
Remember what this was?
Was it Nalu's birthday?
No.
Dalva and Gaspa aren't in it.
Hmm.
Me. you and Dad.
When did you bury him?
What do you mean?
The day you realized
he wasn't coming back.
I think when I saw Mom
donating his clothes.
About a year and a half later.
- Really?
- Hmm.
What about you?
I think it was when we left Rio.
That soon?
I think so.
Seeing the house all empty.
Vera sends her love.
Shall we take a photo
for your sisters?
Let's!
- When was this?
- This?
- I think it was Vera's birthday.
- Mmm.
Can she use the timer?
We're about to find out.
- Is it going?
- Hmm.
Smile!
Need help. Mom?
Ah.
Check it.
I think it's all in order.
As soon as I get
the grant. I'll pay you back.
- Ah. It's all set out here.
- Mm-hmm.
Let's go. before rush hour.
Oh. Mom.
you really don't need to.
Mmm?
Daniel's coming to pick me up.
Oh. okay.
Call me when you get in?
I will.
- Will you behave?
- No.
Mmm.
I'll miss you.
Me too. honey.
Go get ready.
I will.
WHO KILLED RUBENS PAIVA?
THE TRUTH
RUBENS PAIVA CASE
A JOURNEY
INTO THE WORLD OF TORTURE
VEROCA'S SEND-OFF PARTY
DECEMBER
Blow a kiss to Daddy!
Not you. Juca!
Oh. Marcelo. I have the one
from Manchete.
one at the beach...
I have the ones from college.
Ah. and from Brasília.
are there any left?
No. I don't think so.
None survived.
There is the one
with the pigeons.
- Great for the cover!
- That's up to the publisher.
I'll check what I have.
scan and send it to you.
Eliana. put them
on a pen drive for me. please.
We have soufflé!
A total failure!
It deflated!
Careful. it's hot.
No jokes. okay. Veroca?
I brought some ice cream.
Sorry sight. eh. Mrs. Paiva?
If she had written down
the recipe...
Now it's Mom's fault...
Mom. are you full?
Babiu brought ice cream.
want some?
- Chico. you want some. right?
- I do.
- I want some too.
- Here you go.
Juca.
Are you guys
going to take your friends?
No way for us to plan.
It's a holiday!
We talked about it.
When's the holiday?
Raquel.
can you bring Mom out. please?
Sure.
Some more wine? No?
Here. cousin.
You're trying to get me drunk...
Thanks.
Mom seems less irritated.
doesn't she?
Calmer.
I thought so. too.
Juca does her good.
Four months.
but I don't know
if it's official yet.
He said
she's the best kiss in town.
Come on. Juca!
A solid 7. I'd say.
Son of a bitch.
- What do you mean. man?
- You kissed her. too?
No. I'm teasing.
- It was just him.
- Ah.
How did she do this week?
Ah. some days she's fine.
some days
she's completely adrift...
Twenty-one years
of military dictatorship
in Brazil
and the countless crimes
committed against those
who opposed it.
The Commission heard
over 1200 witnesses.
including regime officials
and victims of the dictatorship.
The document reveals
systematic torture and murder
that victimized
over 20.000 people
and left hundreds more missing.
The report identifies
230 locations
where these crimes
were committed.
such as army barracks.
as well as areas
used for disposing bodies.
such as Marambaia.
in Rio de Janeiro.
Some of these victims
became icons of resistance
against the military regime.
like the journalist
Vladimir Herzog.
the student Stuart Angel.
and Congressman Rubens Paiva.
Paiva's body.
like those
of at least 200 others.
has never been found.
Let's take our photo.
Let's go. folks. picture time!
Come on. Facciolla family!
Come on. Facciollas.
photo of the year!
Are you all right?
Juca. where'd you go?
Everyone here?
Let's go. Facciollas!
- Ah.
- Here!
Oh. Mom.
Mom. look over there!
Let's do this. folks.
Smile!
The Brazilian government
admitted
that Rubens Paiva was murdered
inside the barracks of
the First Army Division
in Rio de Janeiro
between January 21 and 22. 1971.
In 2014. five military officers
were charged
with his torture and death.
None of them have been arrested
or punished to this day.
Eunice Paiva got her law degree
at the age of 48
and dedicated her career
to the defense of human rights.
She became one of the few
experts in indigenous rights
and a consultant for the
Brazilian federal government.
the World Bank and the UN.
Eunice died in 2018.
at the age of 89. in São Paulo.
after living with Alzheimer's
disease for 15 years.
BASED ON THE BIOGRAPHY
BY MARCELO RUBENS PAIVA
Watch Online Movies and Series for FREE
www.osdb.link/lm